Перевод v1.0 (#1)
d-r-q/developing-ergonomic-code: azhidkov.pro/content/posts/21/04/en_why-jpa-should-be-avoided.adoc

---
title: "Why You Should Avoid Using JPA/Hibernate in Production"

> description: JPA/Hibernate’s design is causing you to create sluggish & poorly designed software

Reviewer: А тут нельзя просто
```suggestion
description: JPA/Hibernate’s design is causing you to create slow & poorly designed software
```
?
Кажется в техлитре обычно slow используют

date: 2021-04-03T13:25:37+07:00

draft: false
---
:source-highlighter: rouge
:rouge-theme: github
:icons: font

[NOTE]
--
Следить за обновлениями блога можно в моём канале: https://t.me/ergonomic_code[Эргономичный код]
--

== Disclaimer: I passionately hate JPA and Hibernate.

> My relationship with Hibernate (JPA hasn’t yet existed back then) has been rocky from the very beginning. Somewhere as far back as 2005 or 2007, an interviewer asked me how I’d go about mapping the 1-N relationship with Hibernate. ”I have no idea what Hibernate is,” I said.

Reviewer: В этом файле я сам поправлю, но в будущем начинайте новые предложения с новой строки пожалуйста

Then in 2008 I got a job at Softage to work on a project based on Swing and Hibernate.
I had zero commercial experience with either, so it seemed to me I was terrible at the job.
I spent a few weeks worrying my head over it and then quit.

No Java developer can really eschew having to work with JPA altogether, though. So naturally, I too had to live through with it.

> I've had to dig up numerous bugs and performance issues caused by the coding style JPA enforces. I had to fix a mountain of these, just to end up finally understanding how it works.

Reviewer: Кажется, здесь во втором предложении неверно смысл передан. Я его понимаю как "мне пришлось пофиксать гору багов, только для того чтобы понять как оно работает", а я имею ввиду "из-за неизбежности JPA и постоянных проблем с ней, мне пришлось понять как оно работает, чтобы исправлять проблемы."

Still, I'll never get back the hours of doing that.
That's why I hate JPA.

In this article, I've discussed both the facts and my own experience. It's up to you to interpret these.

== JPA’s Philosophy

[NOTE]
--
To be fair, 90% of my experience with JPA is limited to Hibernate. I've also tried EclipseLink, although it has the very same problems.
So in this article, I'm using JPA and Hibernate almost interchangeably.

> However, JPA's main problems all stem from modifiable entities and lazy loading. These are inherent to its specification, so I doubt it's possible to completely avoid them.

Reviewer: modifiable -> mutable

--

> Here's my loose take on JPA's philosophy: "Forget the database–just declare your own object model. Work with it as if it's already in the memory in full. We'll take care about getting all objects saved in the database."

Reviewer: Тут own точно надо? мне кажется "your object model" достаточно

> Perhaps the actual philosophy behind JPA is different–I couldn't find anything in my quick search. However, that's certainly what the folk version of it sounds like.

Reviewer: не quick - я тщательно погуглил:)

.Hibernate’s Simplified Model
image::/posts/21/04/en_jpa-model.svg[]

To make the 'Just think all your objects to already be in the memory' promise come true, that's how Hibernate works:

. The app initiates a transaction via `entityManager.getTransaction().begin()` (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_transactional_memory[transactions can be stored in memory as well], which doesn't contradict JPA's philosophy);
. The app loads the data via entityManager:
.. EntityManager forms up queries and receives table rows via JDBC-Driver.
.. ORM creates proxies for entity objects using these table rows.
.. Before passing all the objects on to the app, entityManager saves them into Persistence Context;
. The app modifies the objects via setters;
.. Since these are proxies, though, the setters also mark the objects as dirty on the way.
. The app commits the transaction via `entityManager.getTransaction().commit()`;
.. Here, the entityManager looks through Persistence Context, then saves or updates all the objects into the database, both dirty and new.

Now, it might seem everything’s perfect. Hey mom, no boilerplate code you’d usually need to work with a database!

> It’s almost like you could hand this task over to a Java coding bootcamp graduate, and they’d rock it.

Reviewer: тут я с англиского на русский переводил "to deliver value" - давайте попробуем эту идиому оставить?:)

However, you can only get by with this while working on the very first version of a simple system used by you and your QA.

> It's only when the system gets under any load and starts to change you can see this design crumbling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's only when the system gets under any load and starts to evolve you can see this design crumbling.
```

== JPA’s Advantages

Everything has both pros and cons.
I must admit there are some bright sides even to JPA.

> With no doubt, it’s the most commonly used database solution for Java.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With no doubt, it’s the most commonly used database access solution for Java.
```

This implies three more upsides.

* There's a multitude of free JPA learning materials for any level.
As long as you're writing idiomatic JPA code, you'll easily find a solution for any problem you might have online.

> * It’s easy to hire a developer who’s well-versed in JPA. You can just get anyone, and there’ll be a 99% chance they have at least some experience with JPA.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* It’s easy to hire a developer who’s familiar with JPA. You can just get anyone, and there’ll be a 99% chance they have at least some experience with JPA.
```

* JPA is supported by everyone and everywhere. For example, Kotlin has made a dedicated https://kotlinlang.org/docs/no-arg-plugin.html[plugin] for JPA compatibility.

What's more, JPA is using the imperative object-oriented paradigm everyone's familiar with.
Need someone who can work with JPA? Anyone on the market will fit the bill.
This model is genuinely easy-to-use, and in most cases will help you come up with a perfectly smooth solution.

> As an isolated task, JPA can handle saving and loading entity graphs into the database full well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Given an isolated task, JPA can handle saving and loading entity graphs into the database full well.
```

JPA is also good at gluing different SQL dialects together, which comes handy if your project's supposed to support multiple DBMSes.
However, this only works as long as you can get by limiting yourself to the features all these dialects share in common.

> As a rule, though, every dialect's best—performance-wise—features are usually unique to it.

Reviewer: 1) gluing - это вроде бы склейка, но тут речь о том, что предоставляется отдельный "абстрактный" диалект, который JPA транслирует в диалекты конкретной СУБД
2) я бы хотел сохранить идиому "lowest common denominator"

> Finally, it's a solid quality solution–I can't recall facing any bugs with Hibernate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, it's a solid solution – I can't recall facing any bugs with Hibernate.
```

There are downsides to everything as well, though, and JPA has quite a lot of these.

== JPA's issues

The root of all JPA's problems is paradigmatic, not technical.
JPA attempts to make it as if there's no database at all. Particularly, it tries to take the developer's mind off the fact that all changes must be reflected in the database.

> Databases are meant for managing state mutations. Therefore, JPA has no other choice but to use the imperative programming model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In its essence DBMSes are managers of state mutations.. Therefore, JPA has no other choice but to use the imperative programming model.
```

> That's the only way you can pass a POJO to the app and keep track of its state mutations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That's the only way you can pass a "POJO" to the app and keep track of its state mutations.
```

> So while pursuing this, JPA excludes the more programmer-friendly declarative model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So while pursuing this, JPA excludes the more ergonomic declarative model.
```
эрогономичность - это что-то вроде девиза или бренда всей моей затеи, это слово важно сохранять везде:)

____
The entity class must not be final
____
However, you must either design and document your classes for inheritance or prohibit it.
I'll quote the classics here: https://www.amazon.com/Effective-Java-Joshua-Bloch/dp/0134685997[Effective Java], chapter "Item 19:  Design and document for inheritance or else prohibit it."

It would take much more effort to design a class for inheritance than to define a data structure with a bunch of fields, as well as setters and getters for these.

I've never seen a JPA Entity designed with inheritance in mind.

Although JPA's entity inheritability can cause potential problems, I've never encountered any in my experience.

=== Objects must be mutable

JPA can't work with immutable objects "By Design," and mutability is inherent to its specification:
[quote, JSR 338: JavaTM Persistence API; Version 2.2; "3.2.4 Synchronization to the Database"]
____
An update to the state of an entity includes both the assignment of a new value to a persistent property or field of the entity as well as the modification of a mutable value of a persistent property or field
____
If your entire model is mutable, though, you get all the issues with:

> . link:++{{<ref "/posts/21/01/210119-effects#_временная_связность">}}++[temporal cohesion];

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. link:++{{<ref "/posts/21/01/210119-effects#_временная_связность">}}++[temporal coupling (rus)];
```

> . link:++{{<ref "/posts/21/01/210119-effects#_нелокальность_рассуждений">}}++[locality of reference];

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. link:++{{<ref "/posts/21/01/210119-effects#_нелокальность_рассуждений">}}++[locality of reasoning (rus)];
```

. link:++{{<ref "/posts/21/01/210119-effects#_конкурентное_программирование">}}++[concurrent development].

To minimize its abstraction https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leaky_abstraction[leaks], JPA needs to make sure an object in memory only corresponds to just one row in the table.

> So if instead of mutating an object you create a new instance of it with an updated state, JPA will treat it as a new object. Naturally, it'll also connect it to a new table row.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So if instead of mutating an object you create a new instance of it with an updated state, JPA will treat it as a new object. Naturally, it'll also link/relate it to a new table row.
```

> If you try to save this new instance, JPA will attempt to insert it. This will cause a unique primary key violation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you try to save this new instance, JPA will attempt to insert it. This will cause a primary key uniqueness violation.
```

> You can partly avoid this by making your entities immutable and limiting updates to UPDATE queries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can partly avoid this by making your entities immutable and perform updates via UPDATE queries.
```

However, this will only work as long as you have to update just one object.
Things get much more complicated if you're working with an immutable object graph, though. You'll need to manually write the queries of each type and–manually as well–run the UPDATE queries through the graph.

> === All code is side effects code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== All code becames code with side effects
```

> JPA transforms virtually all of your code into side effects code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JPA transforms virtually all of your code into code with side effects.
```

Every getter can get the query executed or start doing so tomorrow.
Every function call can mutate your object and add a new UPDATE request to a transaction.

> You can read more about all the issues that come with side effects code link:++{{<ref "/posts/21/01/210126-fraud-functions">}}++[here].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can read more about all the issues that come with side effects code link:++{{<ref "/posts/21/01/210126-fraud-functions">}}++[here (rus)].
```

+
Finally, in just 3% of the time they take full responsibility, get the deadline extended, and come up with an effective solution.
+
In my experience, I usually have it rougly the same way in JPA projects. In the best-case scenario, I end up with a corresponding 60/0/30/10 percent distribution.
. The developer repeats Step no. 3 a few times. Bonus points for using a bunch of nested loops with lazy loading. This way, the number of queries will show exponential growth.
. The developer runs some tests using demo data with just a couple of rows in the table. No problems arise.
. Voila! You're now free to hire me so that I can fix all these performance issues.

With lazy loading, you must always be on the lookout.
Every time you write something like `entity.getXXXs`, ask yourself whether this may cause a https://stackoverflow.com/questions/97197/what-is-the-n1-selects-problem-in-orm-object-relational-mapping[N+1 request] to pop up there.
Personally, I lack the self-discipline for that.

Speaking about lazy loading, we must also mention the infamous LazyInitializationException.
I still keep stumbling upon it in production apps so often you'd be surprised.

> Finally, here's a problem unique to JPA: it doesn't offer any means to dynamically manage lazy loading.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, here's a problem unique to JPA: it doesn't offer convenient means to dynamically manage lazy loading.
```

You could use `NamedEntityGraph` in some cases. It's quite cumbersome, though, so you'd be really tempted to get back to lazy loading.

=== You need an extra query to refresh entities

> This issue is similar the <<Objects must be mutable,immutable objects one>> mentioned above. You'll face it once you need to refresh an entity based off a third-party DTO, e.g. one you got in a HTTP request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This issue is similar the <<Objects must be mutable,immutable objects one>> mentioned above. You'll face it once you need to refresh an entity based off a external DTO, e.g. one you got in a HTTP request.
```

There are two ways to do this in JPA.

> . The idiomatic way: run an extra SELECT query to put the object into PersistenceContext and refresh it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. The idiomatic way: run an extra SELECT query to put the object into PersistenceContext and mutate the object.
```

. The efficient way: use UPDATE again.

The first way seems questionable from the efficiency standpoint.
The second one looks like you're fighting the framework. Wasn't it supposed to make your life easier?

In theory, you could also store your entities in a HTTP session. However, in the horizontal scaling era, this option is better left in theory.

=== You need an extra query to reference an entity

Here's the third problem that stems from the very same root.
Let's say you need to create a new entity that references an existing one with a known ID. 
There are two ways to do that in JPA: you can either run an extra query–thus sacrificing performance–or fight JPA.

=== Caching

Basically, you can’t cache JPA entities.

If your entities have setters, they'll be uncacheable, just because you won't be able to synchronize the concurrent access to them.

> Even if your immutable JPA entity is cached, it'll turn useless once the transaction it was loaded into gets closed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even if your JPA entities  are immutable being cached, they'll turn useless once the transaction it was loaded into gets closed.
```

This approach barely gets talked about, if ever, so learning materials are scarce. Virtually all developers aren't familiar with it, and maintenance can get tricky.

So naturally, we come to the question whether it's worth it if we're prioritizing design and performance for our system.
If the answer's "no," what could be the possible alternatives?

== JPA Alternatives

All the issues outlined above aren't inherent to object relational mapping per se.
These problems are inherent to a very specific approach towards ORM. They are but a natural consequence of it trying to emulate the work with objects within memory.

Other solutions exist where you don't need to sacrifice design and performance for the sake of idiomatic code. Some of these resemble JPA.

=== Spring Data Jdbc/R2dbc

https://docs.spring.io/spring-data/jdbc/docs/2.1.7/reference/html/#reference[docs.spring.io/spring-data/jdbc]

Right now, I prefer working with databases via Spring Data Jdbc/R2dbc (SDJ).

This technology can tick some of the boxes that are commonly thought to be unique to JPA:

. Those developers who are familiar with Spring Data JPA already know most of SDJ.

> . It's still the good old Spring Data tech that can automagically generate methods such as `findByName(name: String)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. It's still the good old Spring Data tech that can automagically generate implementations for methods such as `findByName(name: String)`.
```

. It's a 'reliable solution from a trusted vendor,' which makes it easier to sell to your client or CTO than other alternatives.

> Nonetheless, SDJ's design philosophy is quite programmer-friendly:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nonetheless, SDJ's design philosophy is quite ergonomic:
```

* Provide an all-args constructor — Even if you cannot or don’t want to model your entities as immutable values, there’s still value in providing a constructor that takes all properties of the entity as arguments, including the mutable ones, as this allows the object mapping to skip the property population for optimal performance.
____

What's more, even though...

> All Spring Data modules are inspired by the concepts of “repository”, “aggregate”, and “aggregate root” from Domain Driven Design.
> -- Spring Data JDBC Reference Documentation, https://docs.spring.io/spring-data/jdbc/docs/2.1.7/reference/html/#jdbc.domain-driven-design

...every single Spring Data JPA-based project I've ever encountered in the wild was nothing like that. Usually, they'd ignore DDD, create a repository per table, and have a complete bi-directed graph of all entities.

It seems like the team behind SJD is of the same opinion:

> These are possibly even more important for Spring Data JDBC, because they are, to some extent, contrary to normal practice when working with relational databases.
> -- Spring Data JDBC Reference Documentation

> This so-called "normal practice" is a disastrous nightmare from design, maintenance, and performance standpoints. It can provide you with a quick temporary solution, though.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This so-called "normal practice" is a disastrous nightmare from design, maintenance, and performance standpoints. It can provide you with a quick solution for problem at hands, though.
```

There are two main downsides to it. First, source code takes an extra step to be generated. Second, you'll need a paid license to work with commercial databases.

=== Ebean

https://ebean.io/docs/[ebean.io]

Ebean is a yet another technology I've had some fairly successful commercial experience with.

This tech is the closest you can get to JPA; it's a full-fledged ORM.
Unlike JPA, though, Ebean poses no strict design limitations and shows much better performance by default.

Learning materials on Ebean are few and far between, however, apart from the official docs. I've noticed some peculiarities in its behavior, though.
Moreover, Ebean features an annotation preprocessor which slows the build down quite a bit and doesn't always work smoothly in IntelliJ Idea.

Still, I delivered the project on time. I even managed to develop just my usual fair share of new premature gray hair.

=== MyBatis

https://mybatis.org/mybatis-3/[mybatis.org]

I haven't had the chance to try MyBatis myself in commercial environment. As far as I know, though, it makes a popular alternative to JPA as well.

== Conclusion

> In my opinion, JPA comes in handy when you need a fast, cheap, and poor delivery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In my opinion, JPA comes in handy when you need a fast, cheap, and poor solution.
```
Здесь у меня отсыл к "Быстро, качественно, дёшево - выбери два", может это можно как-то идиоматичнее переписать/обыграть?
